Project Title:   Snakes and Ladders by Core Four

Group Members:

-	Muhammad Ali Usman
-	Ayesha Shamim Naime
-	Sameen Mubashar 
-	Fatima Hussain

Short project description:

The game we developed is the traditional snake and ladder game. The main idea of the game is to win the game against other pplayers.

Features:

The features of the game are:
1. Main menu screeen with four buttons of playing the game, instructions and leader board, quit.
2. Selection of the difficulty level
3. Selection of players
4. Login Page 
5. Finally two game boards according to the difficulty levels

Technical Architecture:

Our game primarily consists of six components:

1. Menu Screen
2. Difficulty level
3. Player Selection
4. Login
5. Boards
6. GUI

Further we are using following third party libraries for our game:

•	Random
•	Time
•	Pygame
•	OS

Through the apt integration of these components and libraries, we have achieved the desired results. On backend a grid of 1200 × 675 cm is created for the game. This is achieved by using pygame library. The buttons, background, are done by using pygame library. The forward and backward buttons are used to proceed to the next screen for the selection of levels and players and then the Login page is used for the further getting data from the players so that their name's will appear while playing the game. After that with the selection of the board, the player did earlier, will appear and the chaos bag containing the tokens and including numbers from 6 to -6 will be generated by using random function and the bead will move according to the number the player got from the chaos bag and the with the appearnce of negative numbers the bead will move backward and with 0 it will remain at its palce. By this movement, using ladders and going through the snakes , once the bead will be moved to the finish, the player who finished the game first will win and his name will appear on the leaderboard according to the statistis and the game will start again through the main menu. 


How to run and deploy your code:

To begin with, download Python from the official website of Python: https://www.python.org/downloads/ 
Then, open command prompt (or terminal in Mac or Linux) and enter the command ‘pip install pygame’. This is used to install the external module pygame.
Note: Users with both Python2 and Python3 installed on their systems should type “pip3 install pygame” instead. 
Lastly, ensure all files are in the same folder. When that is done, run the file “Snake and ladder .py” using python and the game will begin. For best experience, we recommend you to run the game directly from the .py using python. Users interested in development of game are welcome to use an IDE for the execution of the game. Enjoy gaming!
